UNM CS 351 Final project required game: PairPanicking

                                       Document version: 1.0
                                       Released: Sat Nov  9 22:51:50 2013 

PairPanicking is a live-action, multi-player, real-time version of the
memory game often called 'Concentration', with all game logic
implemented in a TileNet server, all user interfacing performed by a
TileNet client, and all game-related communications between client and
server expressed solely in TileNet protocol without using any xrequest
or xresponse tags.

---------------
PairPanicking Rules:

1. There is an 8x8 game board containing 64 squares.  Each square can
   be one of three states: Either 'hidden', or 'showing' a symbol, or
   'solved'.

2. There are 16 distinguishable game symbols.  They may be the hex
   digits 0-f, or letters of the alphabet, or 16 different words or
   strings or images, at vendor's discretion.  The set of symbols may
   be fixed forever or regenerated at the beginning of a game, at
   vendor's discretion.  

3. At the beginning of a game, four copies of each of the 16 symbols
   are randomly distributed on the 8x8 board, one symbol per square.
   All squares are set to 'hidden', meaning perhaps that they are
   blank, or that they all show the same thing, but in any case they
   show nothing that gives any indication what symbol they contain.
   The association between a symbol and a square never changes except
   at the beginning of a game.

4. There may be one or more active players of a game of PairPanicking,
   and zero or more inactive players.  An active player is one that
   has at least one point (see rule 7).  If the number of active
   players falls to zero, the game is over at that moment.  Also, if
   the number of solved squares reaches 64, the game is over.

   4.1 At any time during a game, any player may 'trigger' any square
       that is in the 'hidden' state.  Such a triggering causes that
       square to change to state 'showing' and to reveal its symbol.
       That same triggering may also cause other squares to change
       states as well, see rule 5.  Attempts to trigger squares that
       are showing or solved are ignored.

5. At all times during the play of the game, at most two squares can
   be in state 'showing'.  Whenever a second hidden square is
   triggered and changes to state showing, then a 'waiting period'
   ensues that lasts for the shorter of two seconds or until another
   hidden square is triggered.  At the end of the waiting period
   (whether it ends by timeout or by a triggering of a third square),
   a 'decision' happens as follows:

   5.1 If the two showing squares contain the same symbol, then they
       both switch to state solved -- meaning they disappear or
       perhaps show some shared 'solved' display that is different
       from any of the game symbols, but in any case solved squares
       must be visually distinguishable, as a group, from either
       hidden or showing squares.
 
   5.2 If the two showing squares contain different symbols, they both
       return to state hidden.

6. Winning condition: As soon as there are zero active players or 64
   solved squares the game is over.  If there are any active players,
   the active player with the most points is declared the winner,
   otherwise there is no winner.
   
7. Scoring: Vendors must provide a scoring system for their
   PairPanicking implementation and must choose the details themselves
   in a way that vendor feels maximizes the enjoyability of the game
   play.  Here is one sample scoring system:

   7.1 Each player loses one point whenever they enter the game room.

   7.2 The player that starts a new game loses one point.

   7.3 If two showing squares match, all players (whether active or
       not) receive two points.  In addition, the active player that
       triggered the second showing square receives an additional four
       points.

   7.4 If two showing squares mismatch, all active players lose one
       point each, and the active player that triggered the second
       showing square loses an additional point.  Inactive players are
       unaffected.

   7.5 Each point loss is applied whether or not the player incurring
       the loss is still in the game room or not.  Each point gain is
       applied only if the player receiving the gain is still in the
       game room when the reward occurs.

---------------
TileNet implementation notes:

 - The matrix used for PairPanicking must be larger than 8x8 to
   accomodate at least the following additional tokens/commands:

   = "Home" - A player that clicks this button is returned to the home
     matrix of the server, whether that player is currently active or
     inactive.  

   = "Help" - A player that clicks this button has a brief help
     message about the PairPanicking game, as implemented by the
     vendor, 'spoken' to them.  There may be other buttons with
     additional help at vendor's discretion.  In any case, there must
     be some way via the interface for the player to receive
     information about the vendor's chosen scoring system.

   = "Restart" - This button is active only when a PairPanicking game
     is not already in progress.  Clicking it when active causes a
     game to be started according to rule 3.

 - The two second timeouts are to be measured with reasonable accuracy
   at the game server.  What with network latencies, bandwidth
   limitations, thread contention, and so forth, the actual amount of
   time a pair of showing squares will remain visible in any
   particular client in any particular situation may vary.

 - Game points should correspond to increments of player energy
   according to some vendor-specific scheme.

 - Vendors may provide additional/other mechanisms to obtain
   energy/game points and may or may not provide mechanisms to break
   'deadlocks' in which no player has enough energy to be active.

 - In addition to a conforming PairPanicking game, vendors may at
   their discretion provide other PariPanicking variants in their
   server as well.  If vendor chooses to do so, those additional
   variants are not required to conform to these rules -- however, any
   and all such variants must be clearly marked as being variations,
   and MUST NOT be offered as the vendor's 'free game'.

 - Client vendors must do their utmost to follow faithfully the server
   commands regarding game symbols (displayed as token names).  In
   particular, client vendors must not allow a revealed square's
   symbol to remain visible once it has been rehidden by the server. 

   = Any vendors of client programs caught displaying information
     inappropriately may be labelled "LAME BOT CHEATERS" by everybody
     else.   Any player using such a client program may also be so
     labelled. 

   = This does not apply if a server vendor's PairPanicking
     implementation actually leaks information inappropriately (e.g.,
     storing the square's symbol in a visible token's text even when
     the square is in state hidden).

